# Hot plasma kernel

Hot plasma is characterised by a non-local conductivity kernel.
This code implements a simple finite element model, in 1D, in an annulus geometry.
The required integrals are evaluated, and a routine is provided to rapidly compute matrix entries.

# Installation
You need a C++ compiler, `cmake`, `make` and the Boost (version>=1.70 because of the complex quadrature) and Eigen3 libraries.
You need to define an environment variable `BOOST_INCLUDE_DIR` equal to the path in which you extracted the Boost.
Similarly, for cmake to be able to find Eigen, define `EIGEN3_INCLUDE_DIR` to be equal to the path in which eigen is installed.
E.g. `export EIGEN3_INCLUDE_DIR=$HOME/Downloads/eigen/`. You also need OpenMP, but most compilers these days come with this included.
Lastly, you also need the GNU scientific library. Hint: on Ubuntu Boost/GSL can be installed using `apt` under the names `libboost-all-dev`, and `libgsl-dev`.

Then compile:

` mkdir build ; cd build`

`cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release`

`make -j NTHREADS`

(e.g. `make -j 6` to compile with 6 threads)

# Running the program
The executable in inside the build directory. It takes one command line argument, the name of the input file. This input file can be generated by running generateInput.py.

`./hotPlasmaKernel.x input.json`

You can control the number of threads by setting the environment variable `OMP_NUM_THREADS`.

# Misc

Optionally, you can generate a documentation file with doxygen by running `doxygen` in the root dir (i.e. where the Doxyfile is located).
Then open html/index.html to read it. To generate the pdf version, navigate to `latex/` and use `make`, this requires `pdflatex`.
For more information on the physics of the code, see the paper by Machielsen, Rubin, Graves, "Exact expression for the hot plasma conductivity kernel in configuration space", [2023](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fpp.2023.100008).

# License
HotPK Copyright (C) 2022  Mike Machielsen\
This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.\
This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it\
under certain conditions; see license for details.